= Uncool

= DESCRIPTION

Uncool is unit test coverage tool. Units, just to be absoluately clear,
are methods. So Uncool montiors you test execution and records the methods
called aganist target classes.


= RESOURCES

* home: http://rubyworks.github.com/uncool
* code: http://github.com/rubyworks/uncool
* talk: http://groups.google.com/group/rubyworks


= SYNOPSIS

Uncool works by setting up a #set_trace_func procedure that records
all method calls made against a target set of classes. In Uncool parlance
the methods are called _units_ and the classes are called _targets_ or
_namespaces_.

Uncool provides a command-line tool called `uncool-ruby`, which can be
used to get a coverage report on any Ruby script(s).

    $ uncool-ruby script.rb

The command-line tool is useful in limited cases. More useful it the ability
to require 'uncool', and based on environment variables, uncool will
setup logging automatically. This is especailly useful for running uncool with
various test frameworks, as long as they support an `-r` require option.

For example, here is how we could run a KO![http://proutils.github.com/ko]
test with Uncool coverage.

    ns=Example ko -runcool test/features/example_feature.rb

Where `ns` is the environment variable for setting the targert "namespaces".
More than one namespace can be given by separating them with commas. By default
the coverage report will output to `$stdout`. To log the results to disc provide
the output directory via the `out` environment variable.

    out=log ns=Example ko -runcool test/features/example_feature.rb

This example would then save the output as html under `log/uncool/index.html`.

To setup "profiles" for different uncool runs, you could simply create
ruby script(s) that set these environment variables.

    # config/uncool.rb
    ENV['out'] = 'log'
    ENV['ns']  = 'Example'

Then require that file first.

    $ ko -r./config/uncool.rb -runcool test/features/dummy_feature.rb

Other ways to utilize Uncool for your tests is to invoke the Uncool logger in
your test helper script.

    # test/test_helper.rb
    require 'uncool/log'
    Uncool.log(:output=>'log', :namespaces=>['Example'])

Of course, this will run the Uncool logger exvery time you run a test.

As an alternative you might be able to write your own special runner. For
instance, with the KO! test framework a special runner command can be written
as easily as:

    # script/test_with_uncool

    require 'uncool/log'
    Uncool.log(:output=>'log', :namespaces=>['Example'])

    require 'ko/cli'
    KO::CLI.run(ARGV)

Then use this script to run tests instead. This provides the most flexability
too because the script could also pre-processes ARGV to pull out any special
options for Uncool that we might like to use.


= LEGAL

(Apache 2.0 License)

Copyright (c) 2010 Thomas Sawyer

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this program except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

